JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
Super Tuesday is finally here.
Voters head
to polls and caucuses, as the
candidates prepare
for a critical turning point in
their campaigns.
GWEN IFILL: And we break down
the numbers
on how candidates can secure the
delegates
that will put them over the top.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Plus, Mark
Shields and David
Brooks are here to give
up-to-date analysis
as results pour in from across
the U.S.
GWEN IFILL: Also ahead, we
continue our series
on the integration of special
education programs
in Los Angeles schools --
tonight, why some
parents and teachers believe it
could hurt
more than help.
LINDA HILTON, Mother: I would
say that their
job is to educate my child and
my job is to
socialize my child. A safe
environment is
important, and many of these
other schools
just aren't safe.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: All signs point
to a big Super
Tuesday for the leaders of the
Republican
and Democratic presidential
packs. They're
hoping to roll up so many wins
tonight that
party opponents will fall by the
wayside.
In turn, those opponents spent
their day hoping
just to hang on.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX),
Presidential Candidate:
Today is the big day. Today is
the day we
have been waiting for, for a
year.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And the prize at
the end of
the day, more than 860 delegates
for Democrats
and almost 600 for Republicans.
But GOP front-runner Donald
Trump was sure
enough of his Super Tuesday
showing that he
turned to states that vote in
the coming days
and weeks.
In Columbus, Ohio, he again took
jabs at Republican
rivals, Marco Rubio.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I call him little Marco, little
Marco.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Ted Cruz.
DONALD TRUMP: Lying Ted. We will
build a wall.
Anything you do, you take a
position, and
then you see him on television
when he's not
around you and he says exactly
the opposite
of what your position is.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The two senators
hoping at
least to slow Trump's momentum
answered in
kind. Cruz voted with his family
in Houston,
and appealed to his fellow
Texans.
SEN. TED CRUZ: If you don't want
Donald Trump
to be your nominee, if you're
among that 65
percent of Republicans who
recognize that
Donald Trump could be a disaster
as the nominee,
then I ask you to join us.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Rubio sounded the
same theme
in Andover, Minnesota, this
afternoon.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL),
Presidential Candidate:
Today, the front-runner, at
least according
to national polls in the
Republican primary
is someone who is preying on
your anger, is
someone who is preying on fear.
And there
has never been, in the history
of mankind,
a great movement that has been
based on fear
and on anger. Donald Trump will
be an embarrassment
to America, will be an
embarrassment to anyone
who supported him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the Democratic
side, with
Hillary Clinton out in front,
Senator Bernie
Sanders went home to Vermont to
vote, and
assess his chances of holding
back the Clinton
tide.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
I am confident that if there is
a large voter
turnout today across this
country, we are
going to do well. And if there's
not, we're
probably going to be struggling.
But I hope
that there will be millions of
people coming
out, and participating in what I
call the
political revolution.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But the leaders
in the two
races are increasingly turning
their gaze
on each other as likely
opponents in November.
Trump laced into Clinton today
and the continuing
furor over her handling of
e-mails as secretary
of state.
DONALD TRUMP: Hillary Clinton
cannot do the
job, number one. Number two, she
shouldn't
be allowed to do the job because
what she
did was a criminal act. She
shouldn't be allowed
to run.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A few minutes
later, Clinton
fired back in Minneapolis, and
again condemned
Trump's initial refusal to
reject endorsements
by white supremacists.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
I was very disappointed that he
didn't disavow
what appears to be support from
David Duke
and from the Ku Klux Klan. That
is exactly
the kind of statement that
should be repudiated.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in
Washington, that same
issue weighed on Republican
leaders, eying
their party's prospects if Trump
leads the
ticket.
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY),
Majority Leader:
Senate Republicans condemn David
Duke, the
KKK, and his racism. It has
nothing -- that
is not the view of Republicans
that have been
elected to the United States
Senate, and I
condemn his comments in the most
forceful
way.
REP. PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker
of the House:
If a person wants to be the
nominee of the
Republican Party, there can be
no evasion
and no games. They must reject
any group or
cause that is built on bigotry.
This party
doesn't prey on people's
prejudices. We appeal
to their highest ideals.
JUDY WOODRUFF: House Speaker
Paul Ryan said
he still plans to support the
eventual Republican
nominee. But an Associated Press
survey found
more than half of GOP senators
and governors
are not yet saying if they will
do the same.
We will get reports from key
states voting
today and analysis after the
news summary.
GWEN IFILL: In the day's other
news: President
Obama and Senate leaders met
face-to-face
over the vacancy on the U.S.
Supreme Court,
but they resolved nothing. The
president laid
out his thinking in the Oval
Office session,
but Republicans remained opposed
to any nomination
this year.
That drew a new blast from
Democrats.
SEN. HARRY REID (D-NV), Minority
Leader: And
we're going to continue beating
the drums.
All we want them to do is
fulfill their constitutional
duty and do their job. And at
this stage,
they have decided not to do
that. They think
that they are going to wait and
see what President
Trump will do, I guess, as far
as a nomination.
GWEN IFILL: Back at the Capitol,
Republicans
say they -- said they're not
budging, and
they rejected the Democrats'
criticism as
so much political point-scoring.
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL: Do any of
you think
a Democrat majority in the
Senate would be
confirming a Republican
president's nomination
in the last year of his term? Of
course not.
This is going to be decided by
the American
people and the next president,
whoever that
may be, will fill this vacancy.
GWEN IFILL: The White House said
the president
is reading files on potential
nominees, but
doesn't yet have a short list of
candidates.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Another big swing
on Wall Street.
Stocks surged higher today,
after construction
spending in the U.S. jumped in
January to
the highest level in eight
years. The Dow
Jones industrial average gained
nearly 350
points to close at 16865. The
Nasdaq rose
131 points, and the S&P 500 was
up 46.
The battle between tech giant
Apple and the
FBI over unlocking a terrorist's
iPhone played
out before Congress today.
The two sides argued their
points before the
House Judiciary Committee, as
Hari Sreenivasan
reports.
JAMES COMEY, FBI Director: The
tools you are
counting on us to keep you safe
are becoming
less and less effective.
BRUCE SEWELL, General Counsel,
Apple: We're
doing this because we think that
protecting
the security and the privacy of
hundreds of
millions of iPhone users is the
right thing
to do.
HARI SREENIVASAN: FBI Director
James Comey
and Apple lead counsel Bruce
Sewell used the
hearing to lay out the cases
they're making
in federal court. The fight
centers around
an Apple iPhone used by Syed
Farook last December
in San Bernardino, California.
He and his
wife, Tashfeen Malik, shot dead
14 people.
Federal agents have been unable
to access
the phone's content due to
Apple's encryption,
and Comey says it bespeaks a
larger problem.
JAMES COMEY: All of our lives
are on these
devices, which is why it's so
important that
they be private. That also means
all of the
criminals, pedophiles, and
terrorists' lives
are on these devices. And if
they can't, if
they are warrant-proof, even a
judge can't
order access to a device, that
is a big problem.
HARI SREENIVASAN: A federal
magistrate in
California has ordered Apple to
create special
software that will help unlock
the San Bernardino
phone. Comey acknowledged today
that would
set a precedent. He argued it
would be limited
in scope.
But Apple CEO Tim Cook has
warned it could
be used to compromise hundreds
of millions
of other phones.
Again, Bruce Sewell:
BRUCE SEWELL: The tool that
we're being asked
to create will work on any
iPhone that is
in use today. It is extensible.
It is common.
The principles are the same. So
the notion
that this is somehow only about
opening one
lock or that there is some
category of locks
that can't be opened with the
tool that they're
asking us to create is a
misnomer.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Apple says
it's prepared
to take the fight to the U.S.
Supreme Court,
if need be.
In the meantime, the Justice
Department is
also seeking court orders for
more than a
dozen Apple devices in other
cases. Yesterday,
a federal magistrate in New York
ruled in
favor of Apple in a drug
prosecution, saying
the government is trying to gain
impermissibly
absurd results.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Separately,
Attorney General
Loretta Lynch warned against
letting Apple
alone decide the outcome of the
encryption
debate. She spoke in San
Francisco and called
for cooperation between Silicon
Valley and
Washington.
GWEN IFILL: The International
Criminal Court
has brought its first-ever
charges for destroying
ancient cultural sites. A
radical Islamist,
Ahmad al-Faqi al-Mahdi, was
formally accused
today. The case stems from the
July 2012 destruction
of ancient mausoleums at
Timbuktu in the African
nation of Mali. Al-Mahdi's
defense lawyers
suggested they will try to
justify his actions
on religious grounds.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Pakistan, tens
of thousands
of conservative Muslims
protested against
the execution of a policeman. He
was hanged
in Rawalpindi for killing a
governor who opposed
a blasphemy law. It mandates
death for insulting
Islam. Mourners walked for miles
through the
streets of Rawalpindi today amid
tight security.
They chanted support for the
police officer
and for the law against
blasphemy.
GWEN IFILL: The migrant crisis
in Greece grew
ever more dire today, and the
U.N. Refugee
Agency warned of humanitarian
disaster.
James Mates of Independent
Television News
traveled to the Greek border
with Macedonia,
where growing numbers are
stranded.
JAMES MATES: Outside and looking
in, almost
10,000 refugees and would-be
migrants whose
dreams of a new life in Northern
Europe are
now blocked by razor wire and
armed police.
Only a few weeks ago, they would
have been
waved through this border
crossing, and bussed
northwards towards Austria and
Germany. When
the Austrians started saying no,
the domino
effect rippled back towards
Greece.
"Open the borders," they chant,
as they sit
across the main north-south
railway line.
But those days may be gone for
good. Well,
it's past midday now. We have
been here most
of the morning, and so far not a
single person
has gone through this gate. No
explanation
as to why it's shut. Yesterday,
these people
rioted. Today, they're waiting
patiently,
but it's not getting them any
further.
And judging by the military
hardware being
rolled into place, the
Macedonians are serious
about this. And we saw Czech,
Slovakian and
Austrian police here reinforcing
their Macedonian
colleagues. Every country on
this Balkan route
seems to want it shut down.
We met the Behar (ph) family,
six young daughters
who've been here for 10 days
already. Their
tiny cousin Andy (ph) has spent
precisely
half his life in this camp. And
they want
him out of here quickly. They
don't speak
much English, but know what they
want most.
GIRL: Please, open the door,
Macedonia.
MAN: Please open Macedonia.
Please open Macedonia.
JAMES MATES: And still they come
along the
railway lines, and by foot on
all roads leading
northwards, a bottleneck
becoming more congested
every day. At some point,
something is going
to have to give.
GWEN IFILL: Meanwhile, NATO's
top commander
in Europe, U.S. Air Force
General Philip Breedlove,
warned the refugee flow is --
quote -- "masking
the movement" of Islamic State
militants and
others, and setting the stage
for an attack.
An update to a story we reported
last night.
Late today, the governor of
South Dakota vetoed
a bill that required transgender
students
to use the bathroom of their
birth sex. The
legislative fight had gained
national attention.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And astronaut
Scott kelly returns
to Earth tonight after setting
an American
record for the longest
continuous stay in
space. Kelly handed over command
of the International
Space Station yesterday. He's
been in orbit
340 days, and he sent back a
gallery of out-of-this-world
videos and photos. A Russian,
Valeri Polyakov,
holds the record for longest
space flight
by any human, and that's at 437
days.
GWEN IFILL: Welcome home,
Commander Kelly.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sure.
GWEN IFILL: Still on the
"NewsHour": full
coverage of Super Tuesday from
reporters on
the ground and in-depth analysis
from Mark
Shields and David Brooks; plus,
the challenge
of educating students with
special needs without
holding other students back.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The focus today
is obviously
on the states that are voting,
but both parties'
front-runners are already
looking ahead to
the March 15 contests, including
in Florida,
and will end this day in that
critical battleground
state.
It also happens to be where we
have sent our
new "NewsHour" correspondent,
John Yang.
Welcome, John.
We sent you to Florida on your
second day
on the job. And I guess it's no
coincidence
that the two front-runners are
heading there,
too.
JOHN YANG: That's right, Judy.
You know, on a night like this,
you can really
tell a lot about how a campaign
is feeling
by where they are. This was not
a Super Tuesday
state, as you say, but here in
Miami is where
Hillary Clinton will be, and
just a little
bit north of here in West Palm
Beach is where
Donald Trump will be, both very
confident,
a sign of confidence about how
they expect
to do tonight.
If Donald Trump can sweep all
the states outside
Ted Cruz's home state of Texas,
he will be
poised to put this contest away
in two weeks,
when there are big contests,
including here
in Florida.
And, Judy, on the Democratic
side, Hillary
Clinton hopes to pull away from
Bernie Sanders
in the delegate count in a very
big way. Sanders
didn't even really compete in
the delegate-rich
states of the South, focusing on
other states
where the voters, the voting
population had
a lower percentage of
African-Americans.
Here in the South, the -- that
African-American
population expected to give
Clinton an edge.
If Clinton does have a good
night, expect
when she comes out here tonight
that she will
sound a lot more like a nominee,
rather than
a candidate for the nomination
-- Judy, Gwen.
GWEN IFILL: John, let me add my
welcome to
the "NewsHour."
JOHN YANG: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: Florida is so often
the lock to
the key -- the key to the lock
of who wins
these elections, whether in the
general or
in the primary.
So, that -- so, why is it that
it has already
leapfrogged over so many other
states that
we're watching tonight?
JOHN YANG: Well, for -- partly,
one reason
on the Republican side, it's the
home state
of one of the candidates, Marco
Rubio, who
is also returning here to Miami
tonight.
He has only been on the ballot
here once before,
statewide ballot. That's why a
lot of the
Republicans I talk to said, to
their chagrin,
it is likely that Rubio is not
going to be
able to win his home state in
two weeks.
On the Democratic side, it goes
back to the
mantra of Florida, Florida,
Florida. This
is a state that's going to be
crucial to both
sides. I think that Hillary
Clinton, as she
makes the pivot toward a general
election
campaign, toward going after the
Republicans,
wants to really stake out the
ground here
in Florida.
GWEN IFILL: John, we look
forward the hearing
from you a little bit more later
on tonight
when we begin to get results.
Thanks.
JOHN YANG: Thanks a lot.
GWEN IFILL: Now we move north to
Georgia,
with the second largest number
of delegates
at stake for both parties in
tonight's contests.
And joining us to explore the
political landscape
there is Celeste Headlee of
Georgia Public
Broadcasting in Atlanta.
Celeste, give us a sense of what
you're going
to be watching and what we
should be watching
in Georgia tonight.
CELESTE HEADLEE, Georgia Public
Broadcasting:
I think the biggest thing to
watch is turnout.
Bernie Sanders has taken a risk
in playing
for the young vote here, and
especially young
African-Americans, young
Hispanics. If they
turn out for him, he could do
better than
expected. If they don't, then,
as the polls
suggest, Clinton will take the
race here for
the Democrats.
And Donald Trump has a sizable
lead in the
polls as well. If the polls are
accurate,
Donald Trump and Clinton will
take tonight
in Georgia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Celeste, it's
Judy Woodruff.
Tell us how Georgia differs from
its next-door
neighbor South Carolina, where
Clinton and
Trump both just absolutely wiped
out the opposition.
CELESTE HEADLEE: Well, you know,
Georgia is
a very diverse state.
Georgia is really on the leading
edge in the
changing demographics in this
state. In fact,
Clarkston, Georgia, is known as
the most diverse
square mile in America.
This, however, is also the place
where the
Tea Party really got a lot of
its momentum
as well, so there's kind of a
number of forces
pulling and pushing. Also, in
reference to
the black vote, which really
helped carry
Clinton in South Carolina, this
is Dr. Martin
Luther King's home town. This is
a place where
the question of whether Clinton
can carry
the black vote nationally will
really be tested.
If Clinton comes away with the
vast majority
of the black vote here in
Georgia, that means
she can probably carry it
through the rest
of the nation. And in Georgia,
the bulk of
the Democratic Party is made up
by African-Americans.
So, that's really something to
keep your eye
on here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Celeste Headlee
with Georgia
Public Television, we thank you.
And much farther north, Senator
Bernie Sanders
is hoping to score a home field
advantage
in New England with contests in
Massachusetts
and his own home state of
Vermont.
And we turn now to Emily Rooney
of public
TV station WGBH in Boston.
Hi, Emily.
So, tell us. We know Bernie
Sanders does have
a big advantage in Vermont, but
Massachusetts
is a little different, isn't it?
EMILY ROONEY, WGBH: Yes, I mean,
I don't think
Massachusetts people have really
paid that
much attention to Bernie Sanders
until recently,
of course, the New Hampshire
primary.
But there has been a huge, huge
media push
here, radio and television, and
it was locally
oriented. It wasn't national
advertising.
It was local. And it's every
other advertisement,
all doing the Oscars, AM radio,
every other
commercial, so, personalized,
local, and I
think very effective.
About 20,000 Democrats, who were
enrolled
as Democrats, have switched
their party affiliation.
Now, that could be because they
want to kind
of offset what's going to happen
on the Republican
side, but interesting that it's
kind of leveling
the playing field a little bit.
GWEN IFILL: Emily, I want to ask
you. It's
Gwen.
I want to ask you about the
Elizabeth Warren
factor. There was a very odd
moment yesterday
in which someone fabricated a
"New York Times"
front page which suggested that
Emily -- that
Elizabeth Warren had endorsed
Bernie Sanders,
which did not happen, I want to
be clear.
But everybody has been kind of
watching the
shadow of the progressive
senator from Massachusetts,
very popular progressive
senator, and the
fact that she seems to not have
gotten into
this at all.
CELESTE HEADLEE: No. No matter
how hard you
push Elizabeth Warren, she stays
silent. That's
been our experience right now.
She's not waded into this at
all. Even our
very popular governor, Charlie
Baker, as you
know, originally endorsed Chris
Christie.
He hasn't endorsed anyone right
now. And there
has been a big push from the
editorial pages
for both of them to endorse
someone, but neither
one of them has.
GWEN IFILL: OK.
Well, thank you very much, Emily
Rooney. As
always, you step in for us up
there in New
England. We appreciate it so
much.
CELESTE HEADLEE: Thanks.
GWEN IFILL: We turn now to
Virginia, a key
swing state this fall, where a
mother and
daughter see the Democratic race
through very
different generational lenses.
AIYHA ABDELBAGI, Sanders
Supporter: My name
is Aiyha Abdelbagi. I'm 19 years
old. I live
in Falls Church, Virginia, and
I'm advocating
for Bernie Sanders to be the
next president
of the United States.
AHLAM ELSHAIB, Clinton
Supporter: My name
is Ahlam Elshaib. I'm the mother
of four children.
I'm voting for Mrs. Hillary
Clinton. I feel
like she has plenty of
experience.
Me and my daughter, Aiyha, we
love to talk
a lot about so many issues. We
have, like,
more than a mother and daughter
relationship.
We are friends.
AIYHA ABDELBAGI: I go to George
Mason University.
I'm in my second semester of
freshman year,
and I'm a government and
international relations
major. It takes me about an
hour-and-a-half
to get to school.
So, lots of time, I usually like
the read
my textbooks, which I try to do.
But, if I
get bored, I read the newspaper.
I listen
to music.
I definitely would love to be
like a senator
or somewhere high up there. I
get like this
rush when I hear about politics
and watching
the news. It's my passion.
AHLAM ELSHAIB: I'm a stay-home
mother. My
day starts so early in the
morning. I start
to do my job at home, cleaning,
cooking, prepare
their beds. When I came to the
United States,
for 14 years, I did not have any
health insurance.
AIYHA ABDELBAGI: We'd go to the
doctor, but
I would never see you at the
doctor or the
dentist. It makes sense now.
AHLAM ELSHAIB: Yes. And now I
feel, like,
happy to have Obamacare, very
important issues
that Mrs. Hillary is talking
about.
AIYHA ABDELBAGI: A lot of my
friends are government
majors. So, we sit and we
discuss like what's
going on around the world. We're
advocating
for what we think are solutions
to the main
problems around the country.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
I will do everything that I can
to rid this
country of the ugly stain of
racism.
AIYHA ABDELBAGI: Bernie Sanders
came to George
Mason University.
There was a girl who went up
there. And she
asked him about the anti-Islamic
rhetoric
that is being said. And he
embraced her in
a way that made me feel like he
was embracing
me.
It's kind of scary, like, going
to school
wearing a scarf. There's always
like this
paranoia that just follows you
around. And
when he was speaking, he was
like, "That shouldn't
exist."
As a college student who sees
her dad work
over 70 hours a week as a
taxicab driver and
as someone who has to get a job
just to cover
a little bit of school and extra
expenses,
it's hard to not know why we're
not living
comfortably.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: I want
every kid in America
to know they will be able to go
to college
regardless of the income of
their families.
AIYHA ABDELBAGI: Bernie, when he
says that
he wants the make college free,
it's a very
personal issue, because I think
education
is important for everyone.
AHLAM ELSHAIB: With Hillary
Clinton, she makes
realistic ideas. She does not
just say she
will make college free. She says
that she
will make it affordable, which
is easier to
believe, right? Yes. Uh-huh.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
I am a proud lifelong fighter
for women's
issues, because I firmly believe
what's good
for women is good for America.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
AIYHA ABDELBAGI: As a future
politician, of
course I try to change my mom's
mind. I want
her to believe in what I believe
in, but I
think it's great that she has
her own opinions
as well.
It is really important to see a
woman in the
White House. But it doesn't have
to be Hillary.
Like, I could be the Hillary of
tomorrow.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Quite a mother
and daughter
story.
And now we turn to Hari
Sreenivasan to see
what social media data may
reveal about today's
Super Tuesday vote.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thanks.
Today, voters in 11 states and
American Samoa
will raise their political voice
with delegates
on the line in this year's race.
Will their
demographics and what's on their
mind give
us clues as to how they will
vote? Our data
team looked for clues in the
numbers.
According to the census, more
than 60 million
Americans are old enough to vote
in Super
Tuesday states. That's more than
a quarter
of the country's voting-age
population. And
in many ways, these voters offer
the widest
cross-section of America that we
have seen
so far this election cycle.
For example, the states voting
tonight include
a wide range of incomes.
Alaskans have a median
household income of $71,000,
while Arkansan
households earn on average a
little more than
$41,000. That's far less than
the national
median household income.
But what information are these
households
searching for and talking about?
According
to data from Google News Lab,
Donald Trump
was the most searched-for
Republican candidate
across Super Tuesday states.
When people in
today's contested states were
searching for
information on the Democratic
candidates,
more people were searching for
Bernie Sanders
than Hillary Clinton.
Search results also showed a
geographic split.
Sanders' information was sought
in states
that were North and West, such
as Vermont,
Minnesota and Colorado, even
Texas and Oklahoma,
while Clinton was being searched
for more
in places like Arkansas,
Georgia, Tennessee,
and even Virginia.
As in contests past, what's on
the mind of
the voter and the conversations
they share
across social media depends on
where you look.
Across the Deep South,
Christianity was the
biggest conversation driver on
Facebook in
relation to politics this
election cycle.
Among Facebook users in Super
Tuesday states
overall, the most talked-about
topics were
racism and discrimination,
followed by Christianity
and guns.
If you look north and to the
states west of
the Mississippi, the biggest
concerns were
Wall Street and financial
regulation. While
Facebook users nationwide
weren't talking
about this issue, they were
concerned about
the economy and jobs. And
further north, the
most significant topic to
Alaska's Facebook
users was border security.
GWEN IFILL: And now a bit of a
history lesson.
William Brangham reports on how
Super Tuesday
has come to play a critical role
in the presidential
nomination process and why it
can make or
break candidates.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: You know what
day it is.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Hello, Virginia.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I love you. I love Georgia.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
Minnesota can make history.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX),
Presidential Candidate:
God bless the great state of
Texas.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Super Tuesday,
the single
biggest voting day in the 2016
presidential
primary contest. But what makes
it so super?
Well, it's been known to
effectively seal
the deal or signal the end for
candidates
vying for their party's
nomination.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The primary
voting day political
pundits have been talking about
for months
finally arrived today.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The first
modern-day Super
Tuesday happened in 1988, when a
whopping
20 states, mostly in the South,
held primaries
on March 8 of that year. The
idea was inspired
by a group of moderate Southern
Democratic
governors who were frustrated by
what they
felt was their lack of influence
in national
elections.
Larry Sabato directs the Center
for Politics
at the University of Virginia.
LARRY SABATO, Director,
University of Virginia
Center for Politics: They wanted
to try to
moderate the Democratic Party,
to move it
more to the center, so it could
win a national
election. And that was the
origin of Super
Tuesday, to put the Southern
states in the
early part of the calendar, so
that, ideally,
in their view, a more moderate
candidate would
receive a big boost from that
particular day's
voting.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: But the plan
backfired.
The Southern governors hung
their hopes on
then Tennessee Senator Al Gore,
but he split
votes with Jesse Jackson, which
led then Massachusetts
Governor Michael Dukakis to
first-place finishes
in Texas and Florida, and
Dukakis went on
to become the nominee.
LARRY SABATO: The unintended
consequences
of reform. Their plan didn't
work, pure and
simple. I think they were
surprised that Gore
didn't do better than he did,
and they weren't
too keen on Michael Dukakis
either, who was
boosted at least as much by
Super Tuesday
as any other candidate.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Since then,
Super Tuesday
and the momentum that comes with
it has been
a good predictor of eventual
party nominees.
BOB DOLE (R), Former
Presidential Candidate:
I think the only Tuesday that's
going to be
more super than this Tuesday
will be Tuesday,
November 5. That's going to be
super.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In 1996,
then-Republican
Senator Bob Dole swept the field
and forced
his then-rival, businessman
Steve Forbes,
to withdraw two days after their
Super Tuesday
matchup. And, in 2000, then-Vice
President
Gore did the same. With 81
percent of Democratic
delegates up for grabs on Super
Tuesday, he
effectively locked up the
nomination.
GWEN IFILL: Gore's victory was a
sweet one.
The former Tennessee senator
swept all 11
primary states and five
contested party caucuses.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And then 2008,
the Super
Duper Tuesday, when more than 20
states voted.
But the results only predicted
the nomination
for one side.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Democrats Hillary
Clinton and
Barack Obama are pretty much in
the same position
they were when Super Tuesday
began.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Then-Senator
Barack Obama
narrowly edged out then-Senator
Hillary Clinton
on the all-important delegate
count, but not
enough to clinch the nomination.
That same day, Senator John
McCain emerged
as the clear front-runner for
the Republicans.
SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R), Arizona:
We're going
to win today, and we're going to
win the nomination,
and we're going to win the
presidency.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: On this Super
Tuesday, 10
states have both Republican and
Democratic
primaries or caucuses with
delegates at stake.
And, yes, they're mostly in the
South.
Republicans also have a caucus
in Alaska,
while Democrats will also caucus
in Colorado
and American Samoa.
LARRY SABATO: This is one of the
most important
days on the calendar. It has
come at a moment
when both parties are poised to
move in a
certain direction.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: On the
Democratic side,
Hillary Clinton has widened her
delegate lead
over Senator Bernie Sanders with
her dominating
win in South Carolina last
weekend. And Donald
Trump boasts a double-digit
margin over the
rest of the GOP field.
LARRY SABATO: It certainly will
be a milestone
along the way toward a Trump
nomination or,
alternately, toward having one
of the other
candidates, possibly Marco
Rubio, begin to
suggest that he can catch up to
Trump or at
least force a contested
convention.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: A contested
convention?
Remember, Super Tuesday was
designed to prevent
just that. While that may be
working for the
Democrats, for the Republicans,
this Super
Tuesday may do just the
opposite.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
William Brangham
in Washington, D.C.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And it would not
be Super Tuesday
without the analysis of Shields
and Brooks.
That's syndicated columnist Mark
Shields and
New York Times columnist David
Brooks.
Gentlemen, welcome.
No comments about hair or
anything else we
saw or heard in the last few
minutes.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: Wow. Wow.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David, we have
heard about
past Super Tuesdays. What are
you looking
for tonight?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, Trump is the
story.
I mean, Trump is one of the
biggest political
stories of our lifetime. And so
the fact that
-- well, I'm supposed to be
objective, but
a bigoted buffoon may get the
nomination of
a major party is sort of a big
deal. Everywhere
I go all around the world,
people are fixated
on this fact.
And so, if he does what the
polls suggest,
that's just a major event in
American political
life, if he takes this gigantic
step toward
the nomination of a major party.
GWEN IFILL: Mark, I wonder if --
we just heard
the history of this and how we
came to this
point.
I wonder if that has something
to do with
where we are now. By creating a
Super Tuesday
that was supposed to come up
with a...
MARK SHIELDS: Moderate, yes.
GWEN IFILL: ... predetermined
result, that
it's backfiring now.
MARK SHIELDS: I think it has.
I mean, unintended consequences,
the law thereof.
It was organized by Chuck Robb,
the former
governor of Virginia, son-in-law
of President
Johnson, to really stop the
Democratic Party
from drifting to the left. And
as William
described beautifully in that
piece, Jesse
Jackson nearly showed how it
could be done
and became the model.
He upset the apple cart when
Michael Dukakis
in 1988 was supposed -- was able
to run what
they called a four-corners
strategy by winning
Florida and Texas and the state
of Washington
and the Northeast as well.
But it -- no, it has become --
the difference
between Super Tuesday and the
events that
precede it is that all of Iowa,
New Hampshire,
even Nevada, they see the
candidates up close.
They can touch them. They can
listen to them.
Now it's strictly wholesale
politics. It's
what voters conclude from what
they read,
see, sense, communicate about
them. And I
think that's -- Donald Trump has
shown depth
and strength in three different
states, in
winning New Hampshire and Nevada
and South
Carolina.
He's showing a breadth now that
is really
rather remarkable. If he carries
Alabama and
Massachusetts in the same day,
it's been a
long time.
GWEN IFILL: Yes.
MARK SHIELDS: Mitt Romney didn't
do as well
on Super Tuesday, nor did John
McCain, the
last two nominees, as it appears
that Donald
Trump is poised to do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, David, can
we really blame
the calendar and Super Tuesday,
because -- is
the argument that if Donald
Trump had more
time, he wouldn't be as
appealing as he is?
DAVID BROOKS: I have been saying
that for
eight months, so, you know, I --
no, he's...
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: And you have not
been proved right
yet.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: It's coming,
sometimes in eight
years, when he's out of office.
No, it's -- I don't -- you know,
he's just
dominant. He's dominant with
moderate voters.
He's dominant with downscale
voters. But he's
pretty dominant with upscale
voters. He's
beating people among Latino
voters, at least
those folks who vote in
Republican primaries.
He's just amazingly dominant.
And it's fascinating.
The whole world is -- whole
media world is
hating on him, John Oliver and
everybody else.
It's having no effect, no
measurable effect.
GWEN IFILL: I want to just
piggyback back
to that, because it seems
interesting to me,
David, that Republicans are
becoming more
conservative, Democrats,
according to exit
polls we have already seen
tonight, are becoming
more liberal, and the twain
isn't meeting
here at all.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes. No, that's
true, though
Trump shows that there was more
ideological
flexibility in the Republican
Party than we
would have thought.
Here's a guy who is praising
Planned Parenthood,
whose policies on health care
are almost Sanders-esque
sometimes. And so all the
orthodox candidates,
Bobby Jindal, gone.
GWEN IFILL: Right.
DAVID BROOKS: And Ted Cruz is
now the closest
thing.
So, the couple races that I
think are interesting
to look at, obviously Texas. If
Cruz loses,
he's gone. But if he wins, he
hangs around.
Georgia and Virginia, maybe
there is some
hope there we see somebody with
a strong second-place
finish, but, mostly, if the
polls are anywhere
close to correct, we're just
looking for strong
second-place finishes in a
couple...
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, Mark, the
question people
keep asking is, what else could
Ted Cruz or
Marco Rubio or any one of the
other candidates
who dropped out on the
Republican side, what
could they have done to have
nicked or stopped
or slowed down Donald Trump?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, they could
have engaged
him.
I mean, let's be very blunt
about it. Jeb
Bush, now departed from the
race, was the
only candidate who showed really
any courage,
any directness in confronting
Donald Trump
and was aggressive.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But look where it
got him.
MARK SHIELDS: Now, Rubio did, in
an act of
desperation, very well. Don't
get me wrong.
He did a Donald Trump on Donald
Trump, is
what he did.
I mean, when we start to get
into the size
of hands as a question of
presidents' qualifications,
I mean, then we have really
descended. And
we have followed -- we can't say
that Donald
Trump has not elevated the
discourse in this.
So, no, I just -- I think they
gave him a
ride. The rest of them were
sniping at each
other. Cruz was on Rubio. And
they were back
and forth, and at Jeb and so
forth. But, I
mean, nobody other than Jeb Bush
took him
on, and now the questions have
been raised,
whether it's Trump University.
It's all been
out there, Judy. That is not new
information.
If somebody -- the oppo research
of every
campaign had it, but no one
wanted to bell
the cat or beard the lion or
whatever you
want to -- however you want to
describe it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Our friend Amy
Walter was here
last night. And among other
things, she said
that if Donald Trump does as
well as people
expect him to tonight, it will
be an implosion
for the Republican Party, it
will no longer
be what it ever was.
Do you agree with her on that,
David?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes. Yes.
I mean, we have never seen a
candidate at
all like him. He's not a
conservative by any
principle. He's not a policy
wonk. He has
no policies and proposals. He
has -- and he
has, frankly, racial attitudes
that remind
you of the ugliness of an
earlier era of a
different country.
And so that's just a gigantic
shift for a
party. And people are upset with
the establishment.
I realize that. But that doesn't
mean the
authoritarian solution is the
solution. But
there has been a rising sense of
authoritarianism
in the American people, which
has been measurable
in polls for a number of years,
and now it's
finding its political
efflorescence.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let's talk about
the Democrats
for a minute, Mark.
Hillary Clinton is looking like
she's in pretty
solid shape. But Bernie Sanders
says he's
not walking away. He says he's
staying in
this race until the end. He's
been running
around the country campaigning
everywhere.
What does he represent for her
at this point?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, he
represents her hope
and salvation.
I mean, Hillary Clinton was a
great candidate
in 2008, when she was beaten,
when she was
an underdog, fighting back
against Barack
Obama, who was headed as a
steamroller toward
the nomination. That brought out
the -- the
Clintons do not do well in
political prosperity.
They don't do well when
unchallenged.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: And she became a
better candidate
after she lost New Hampshire.
Bernie Sanders
raised $40 million last month.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes.
MARK SHIELDS: I mean, that is
phenomenal.
That is almost three times as
much as Hillary
Clinton made -- raised in the
month of January.
I mean, so he represents, I
think, a hope
for her, in the sense that
there's a competition
that continues. If he wins a
couple of states
tonight, which they're holding
out hope that
they can, he's certainly alive.
He's got an
intense and passionate
following. And I think
it's -- she's now referring to
him again as
her esteemed colleague, which is
an indication
she thinks...
GWEN IFILL: Because she's
attacking Trump
instead.
MARK SHIELDS: But the reason she
has got this
big league is because of the
Democratic Party's
equivalent of the House of
Lords, which is
what the superdelegates are.
I mean, if you were once the
Democratic leader
of the city council in
Minneapolis, you're
going to be a super delegate, I
mean, for
no other deserving reason. And
so she's got
an enormous lead among them, so
leading among
the House of Lords. And the
question is, can
you win primaries? And she's
done pretty darn
well recently.
GWEN IFILL: Are Democrats hoping
for and are
Republicans fearing the
potential for a third
party, that Republicans say, we
can't have
this? We have had some leaders
say that already.
"I will not vote for either of
them."
And then finding someone to
anoint and come
to the rescue -- and Democrats,
of course,
would love that.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, I still don't
think it
would happen. Obviously, Michael
Bloomberg
is the obvious case.
But the states are basically
partisan. The
parties -- people are basically
locked into
their party ideology, even if
Donald Trump
is the nominee. So the idea that
Mike Bloomberg
or some third-party candidate...
GWEN IFILL: Mitt Romney?
DAVID BROOKS: That would be a
total implosion
for the Republican Party.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: I doubt even he
could carry
any states, and then, even if
they did, it
would just get thrown to the
House of Representatives.
And a body made of entirely of
Republicans
and Democrats is not going to
elect a non-Republican
or Democrat. So, I think there
will be no
third party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But isn't it not
really clear
which part of the Republican
Party Donald
Trump doesn't represent?
Because they're -- you hear very
conservative
Republicans saying they don't
like him, and
you hear more moderate
Republicans saying
they don't like him. So, who do
you run to
satisfy the rest of the
Republican Party?
MARK SHIELDS: I -- I think
that's a very legitimate
question.
He is -- whatever else he is,
he's his own
man. He walks where he chooses
to walk. He
doesn't truckle before any
particular constituency
in the Republican Party. I don't
care who
it is. So, in that sense, it's a
strength.
The problem that Republicans,
the sense of
panic among Republicans in
Washington is that
he will be a disaster in
November and take
with him the Republican control
of the Senate
and a lot of -- put in jeopardy
a lot of moderate
Republican House seats.
And so that's what they're
anxious about.
They think that this is not a
man who is going
to win a majority of the country
in a presidential
election in November.
GWEN IFILL: You know, winners or
losers aside,
how would you guys assess the
tone of this
campaign in the last couple of
weeks?
It's certainly nothing like we
have ever seen,
and I wonder if you think that's
for good
or ill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we won't let
you repeat
anything you have heard.
GWEN IFILL: Nothing.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: No.
It's for ill. The Democratic
side is fine.
It's a normal race. You have
sort of moderate
vs. a lefty. But the way the
Republicans are
going after each other and the
screaming,
to me, some -- there was a pivot
point, which
is why I think this is such a
big moment in
American politics. It was the
first debate.
Donald Trump had already
attacked Carly Fiorina
for the way she looked. He then
turned to
Rand Paul and said, "I'm not
going to attack
him for the way he looks, but
there's a lot
to work with there."
GWEN IFILL: Right.
DAVID BROOKS: And so, at that
moment, a lot
of taboos just crumbled and
dissolved. And
we entered a new world.
As I have said on this program
before, Donald
Trump spent 25 years in the
world of professional
wrestling, and he just brought
that style.
And it happened to play. This is
not about
policy. This is about manners.
He was against
the manners that we have assumed
to be the
manners of the public discourse.
And he's
dissolved them all. And it's
paid off for
him so far.
GWEN IFILL: And, in the end, it
wasn't just
him doing it.
DAVID BROOKS: Oh, absolutely.
People had to
go there.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Rubio followed
him right down
that path.
(CROSSTALK)
MARK SHIELDS: Rubio got bigger
crowds and
more enthusiasm, a bigger
reaction when he
started doing it, too.
I would compare it to the
impeachment, the
language. You almost had to get
the children
out of the room when the news
came on in impeachment.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mean the Bill
Clinton...
MARK SHIELDS: Bill Clinton's
impeachment and
all the surrounding events and
testimony there.
But that was mercifully over.
You know, it
happened, and then it was
resolved. And then
we didn't have -- this is heroin
in the bloodstream,
I mean, because politics is the
most imitative
of all human activities, with
the possible
exception of political
journalism.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: And, you know,
people win elections.
And if you used a blue bumper
sticker to win,
my goodness, I'm going to use a
blue bumper
sticker.
And this is going to be it.
Donald Trump is
going to be -- you know, you
steal a hot stove
and go back to the smoke, you're
a child molester,
you're whatever else, I mean,
he's just kind
of taken all standards and
removed them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And it's working.
MARK SHIELDS: And it's working.
I mean, that's
it. That's why I say it's like
success is
emulated.
GWEN IFILL: OK.
Well, Mark Shields, David
Brooks, we will
be talking to you and watching
you, I don't
know, eat your words or
whatever.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: Thank you.
Tune in tonight for more Shields
and Brooks,
as I just said, plus the latest
results this
Super Tuesday. We will have
special PBS "NewsHour"
coverage at 11:00 p.m. Eastern.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally tonight,
we take a
break from politics.
Four decades after the federal
government
established special education
services for
students with disabilities,
school districts
around the country are still
trying to live
up to the law. Last week, we
showed you some
of the progress. But there are
still big challenges
ahead, and in some cases,
questions about
how well those efforts are
working.
Special correspondent John
Tulenko of Education
Week has the second of two
stories he filed
from California. It's part of
our weekly education
series, Making the Grade, which
airs Tuesdays
on the "NewsHour."
JOHN TULENKO: In Los Angeles,
the nation's
second largest school system, it
took a class-action
lawsuit filed in 1993 to bring
attention to
the failures in special
education.
Teachers weren't trained,
records weren't
kept, and thousands of students
were not receiving
services.
Sharyn Howell, the district's
special education
director, says progress has been
made.
SHARYN Howell, Special Education
Director,
Los Angeles Unified School
District: I think
we have come a long ways. Even
at that point
in time in LAUSD and in other
school districts,
special education was still
thought of as
this was a very separate group
of students
and most of them were in
segregated classes
someplace.
JOHN TULENKO: But not anymore.
Today, many
of the problems have been
resolved, especially
when it comes to inclusion. In
2003, about
half of all students with
disabilities were
taught alongside their
non-disabled peers
for the majority of the day. Now
it's 90 percent
for students with learning or
speech and language
disabilities.
For other special education
students, there's
still a ways to go.
Seventeen-year-old Leo
Villegas, who has Down syndrome,
spends most
of his day in a separate
classroom. But even
that's beginning to change.
ROSIE VILLEGAS, Mother: I want
Leo to be included
in the community. I don't want
Leo to be segregated
all the time. I mean, come on.
JOHN TULENKO: Rosie Villegas is
Leo's mother.
ROSIE VILLEGAS: I want other
students or other
people to see Leo and accept Leo
the way he
is, even if it doesn't work, to
try.
JOHN TULENKO: At his mother's
insistence,
Leo is in a few general
education classes
like economics, but not without
support.
Monet Gothard is with Leo all
day, helping
with his behavior and class
work.
MONET GOTHARD, Behavior
Intervention Therapist:
I was reading a story to him,
and then he
was answering reading
comprehension questions.
JOHN TULENKO: How often is Leo
doing the same
things as the other students in
class?
MONET GOTHARD: Well, for it to
be meaningful
for Leo at the level that he's
at, the work
has to be modified.
ROSS KRAMER, Special Education
Teacher: It's
a good buzzword, gen ed. Put the
kids in gen
ed, gen ed, gen ed. I don't know
if it's for
everybody.
JOHN TULENKO: Most of the time,
Leo is in
Ross Kramer's class, together
with other students
with intellectual disabilities.
ROSS KRAMER: I don't, myself,
usually send
kids to general education unless
it's part
of the meeting and the parents
insist on that
happening.
JOHN TULENKO: Why?
ROSS KRAMER: Would I have sent
-- because
I don't think they could access
the curriculum
as well. A lot of the work is
being spoon-fed
and done to them. And what are
they retaining?
What are they getting from that?
JOHN TULENKO: Others see it
differently.
SHARYN HOWELL: That young man,
when he leaves
school, he's not going to a
special education
job. He's not going to a special
education
movie theater. And so it's
important for our
students to be in that community
of individuals
that they're going to spend the
rest of their
life with when they leave us.
JOHN TULENKO: With that in mind,
Los Angeles
has been phasing out schools
that serve only
students with disabilities, like
McBride Special
Education Center.
There, we met Brandon Buschini.
Would you like to go to a
regular high school,
yes or no?
JOHN TULENKO: Brandon, a
20-year-old high
school senior, has physical and
cognitive
delays that prevent him from
walking and speaking.
He's been at McBride since he
was 3 years
old.
BRANDON BUSCHINI, Student
(through computer
voice): No.
JOHN TULENKO: Ah. So you would
like to stay
here for school?
BRANDON BUSCHINI (through
computer voice):
Yes.
JOHN TULENKO: His mother agrees.
LINDA HILTON, Mother: I'm not
against inclusion
at all. I actually wanted him to
be in a -- quote,
unquote -- "regular school" when
he was small.
It's just that, based on his
needs, it's the
-- it's not the appropriate
place for him.
JOHN TULENKO: Brandon requires a
full-time
health care aide, in addition to
other assistance.
LINDA HILTON: He needs an
occupational therapist.
He needs a speech therapist. He
needs a teacher
that's working with a speech
therapist to
be on the same page, an
environment that he
can access with his wheelchair.
And you don't
find that anywhere else.
SHARYN HOWELL: All those things
are available.
We can make all those things
available in
a general education campus. Why
would we not
give those students an
opportunity to have
exposure to their general
education peers?
LINDA HILTON: I would say that
their job is
to educate my child and my job
is to socialize
my child. A safe environment is
important,
and many of these other schools
just aren't
safe.
JOHN TULENKO: Many buildings
aren't even accessible,
lacking basic accommodations
like ramps. Fixing
that could cost over a billion
dollars, twice
as much as what's been budgeted.
Brandon's school is already
equipped, but
what about academics?
What are your education goals
for Brandon?
LINDA HILTON: Working with the
right teachers
to actually access Brandon,
because Brandon
is fully capable of
understanding in real
time, but due to his
developmental delays,
it makes it difficult for all of
us to communicate
with him.
JOHN TULENKO: So, Brandon is
fully there.
Shouldn't he be taking regular
classes?
LINDA HILTON: It depends on the
teacher and
it depends on the services. So,
that's where
it becomes a little bit tricky.
JOHN TULENKO: Because getting
services isn't
easy, even for parents who
support inclusion.
ROSIE VILLEGAS: Constantly,
there is a fight
with the school district because
they're saying,
yes, we are providing service,
when they're
not.
For example, Leo has an hour of
speech a week.
So, first, I call and say, what
is the day
that my son is going to be
getting service?
I go there, and the speech
therapist is not
there.
DAVID ROSTETTER, Independent
Monitor, Los
Angeles Unified School District:
What you're
raising here is Outcome 13.
Outcome 13 is
the measure the school district
has not been
able to achieve.
JOHN TULENKO: David Rostetter,
who was brought
in by the courts to monitor
special education
here, is referring to the final
requirement
of L.A.'s longstanding lawsuit:
At least 85
percent of students must receive
100 percent
of their services.
DAVID ROSTETTER: The best the
district has
been able to do is to be, on
average with
service provision, 72 percent of
the students
receive 100 percent of it. That
is absolutely,
completely unacceptable.
JOHN TULENKO: Speech therapist
Ashley Hall
has 55 students between two
schools. That's
about 11 students per day, plus
at least an
hour for paperwork, parent
meetings and not
to mention lunch.
ASHLEY HALL, Speech Therapist:
So there are
days that we have to accommodate
the children
in different ways. So maybe a
child who you
would see one on one, or one on
two ends up
being in a group of children
with four or
five, and they don't necessarily
get the time
that they need.
Lowering caseloads would be a
significant
help. I had about 36 students
when I was at
a private clinic, and we saw
success much
more rapidly because those
numbers were lower.
DAVID ROSTETTER: They lose
speech therapists
every year over this. You can't
perform in
that environment.
SHARYN HOWELL: We know that, no
matter how
much work we do, there are
always going to
be teachers or administrators or
parents who
are going to push us and say,
what you're
doing is not right, and that's
OK, because
it makes us think about what
we're doing and
it makes us really make sure
that the programs
that we do have meet everybody's
needs.
JOHN TULENKO: For Brandon
Buschini's family,
it's imperative he receives
services. His
mother and other parents have
turned to the
courts to keep schools like his
open.
LINDA HILTON: So, this kind of
speaks to the
level of the law-breaking.
JOHN TULENKO: L.A. Unified
declined to comment
on the lawsuit, which is
awaiting a court
decision on whether the case
will move forward.
In Los Angeles, California, I'm
John Tulenko
of Education Week, reporting for
the "PBS
NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online: One
out of 10 Americans has what the
National
Institutes of Health classifies
as a rare
disease. But caring for a family
member with
a rare condition, and finding
support and
proper care, can be daunting.
We spent time with a Maryland
couple who are
fighting that battle on behalf
of their 2-year-old.
You can read their story on our
home page.
And, of course, you can follow
our Web site
all night for breaking news and
live video
from the campaign trail. All
that and more
is at PBS.org/NewsHour.
GWEN IFILL: And that's the
"NewsHour" for
now. I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us for the "NewsHour"'s
special coverage
of Super Tuesday later tonight
at 11:00 p.m.
Eastern.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.